now Abraham was old well advanced in age
and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all
things so Abraham said to the oldest
servant of his house who ruled over all
that he had please put your hand under
my thigh and I will make you swear by
the Lord the God of heaven and the god
of Earth that you will not take a wife
for my son from the daughters of the
Canaanites among the white well but you
shall go to my country unto my family
and take a wife for my son Isaac and the
servant said to him perhaps the woman
will not be willing to follow me to this
land must I take your son back to the
land from which you came but Abraham
said to him beware that you do not take
my son back there the Lord God of heaven
took me from my father's house and from
the land of my family and who spoke to
me and swore to me saying to your
descendants I give this land he will
send his angel before you and you shall
take a wife for my son from there and if
the woman is not willing to follow you
then you will be released from this oath
only do not take my son back there so
the servant put his hand under the thigh
of Abraham his master and swore to him
concerning this matter then the servant
took ten of his master's camels and
departed for all his master's goods were
in his hand and he arose and went to
Mesopotamia to the city of Nahor and he
made his camels kneel down outside the
city by a well of water at evening time
the time when women go out to draw water
o Lord God of my master Abraham please
give me success this day and show
kindness to my master Abraham behold
here I stand by the well of water and
the daughters of the men of the city are
coming out to draw water
now let it be that the young woman to
whom I say please let down your pitcher
that I may drink and she says drink and
I will also give your camels a drink let
her be the one you have appointed for
your servant Isaac and by this I will
know that you have shown kindness to my
master and it happened before he had
finished speaking that behold Rebekah
who was born to be fuel son of Milcah
the wife of Nahor Abraham's brother came
out with her pitcher on her shoulder now
the young woman was very beautiful to
behold a virgin no man had known
and she went down to the well filled her
picture and came up and the servant ran
to meet her and said please let me drink
a little water from your pitcher drink
my lord
then she quickly let her pitcher down to
her hand and gave him a drink and when
she had finished giving him a drink she
said
he will draw water for your camels also
until they have finished drinking then
she quickly emptied her pitcher into the
trough ran back to the well to draw
water and drew for all his camels and
the man wandering at her remained silent
so as to know whether the Lord had made
his journey prosperous or not so it was
when the camels had finished drinking
that the man took a golden nose ring
weighing half a shekel and two bracelets
for her wrists weighing 10 shekels of
gold and said whose daughter are you
tell me please is there room in your
father's house for us to lodge I am the
daughter of Bethuel milk a son whom she
bore to Nayer we have both straw and
feet enough in room to lodge then the
man bowed down his head and worshiped
the Lord blessed be the Lord God of my
master Abraham who has not forsaken his
mercy and his truth toward my master as
for me being on the way the Lord led me
to the house of my Master's brethren so
the young woman ran and told her
mother's household these things now
Rebecca had a brother whose name was
Layden and Laban ran out to the man by
the well so it came to pass when he saw
the nose ring and the bracelets on his
sister's wrists and when he heard the
words of his sister Rebekah saying thus
the man spoke to me but he went to the
matter
and there he stood by the cameras at the
well come in ho blessed of the Lord why
do you stand outside for I've prepared
the house in a place for the camels from
the man came to the house and he
unloaded the camels and provided straw
and feed for the camels and water to
wash his feet and the feet of a man who
were with him food was set before him to
eat but he said I will not eat until I
have told about my errand speak on
I am Abraham's servant the Lord has
blessed my master greatly and he has
become great and he has given him flocks
and herds silver and gold male and
female servants and camels and donkeys
and Sarah my Master's wife bore a son to
my master when she was old and to him he
has given all that he has now my master
made me swear saying you shall not take
a wife for my son from the daughters of
the Canaanites in whose land I dwell but
you shall go to my father's house and to
my family
and take a wife for my son and I said to
my master perhaps the woman will not
follow me but he said to me the Lord
before whom I walk will send his angel
with you and prosper your way and you
shall take a wife for my son from my
family and from my father's house you
will be clear from this oath when you
arrived among my family for if they will
not give her to you then you will be
released from my oath and this day I
came to the well and said O Lord God of
my master Abraham if you will now
prosper the way in which I go behold I
stand by the well of water and it shall
come to pass that when the virgin comes
out to draw water and I say to her
please give me a little water from your
pitcher to drink and she says to me
drink and I will draw for your camels
also let her be the woman whom the Lord
has appointed for my master's son
but before I had finished speaking in my
heart that was Rebecca coming out with
her picture on her shoulder and she went
down to the well and drew water and I
said to her please let me drink and she
made haste and let her pitcher down from
her shoulder and said drink and I will
give your camels a drink also so I drank
and she gave the camels a drink also
then I asked her and said whose daughter
are you and she said the daughter of
Beth you'll nail our son who milk a boy
to him so I put the nose ring on her
nose and the bracelets on her wrists and
I bowed my head and worshiped the Lord
and blessed the Lord God of my master
Abraham who had led me in the way of
truth to take the daughter of my
Master's brother for his son now if you
will deal kindly and truly with my
master tell me and if not tell me that I
may turn to the right hand or to the
left then Laban and Beth you'll answered
the thing comes from the Lord we cannot
speak to you either bad or good here is
Rebecca before you take her and go and
let her be your master's son's wife as
the Lord has spoken and it came to pass
when Abraham's servant heard their words
that he worshipped the Lord bowing
himself to the earth then the servant
brought out jewellery of silver jewelry
of gold and clothing and gave them to
Rebecca he also gave precious things to
her brother and to her mother and he and
the man who were with him ate and drank
and stayed all night then they arose in
the morning send me away to my master
but her brother and her mother said let
the young woman stay with us a few days
at least ten after that she may go do
not hinder me since the Lord has
prospered my way send me away so that I
may go to my master we will call the
young woman and ask her personally then
they called Rebecca and said to her will
you go with this man I will go so they
sent away Rebecca their sister and her
nurse and Abraham's servant and his men
and they blessed Rebecca and said to her
our sister may you become the mother of
thousands of ten thousands and may your
descendants possess the gates of those
who hate them then Rebecca and her maids
arose and they rode on the camels and
followed the man so the servant took
Rebecca and departed
now Isaac came from the way of Birla
high ROI for he dwelt in the south and
Isaac went out to meditate in the field
in the evening and he lifted his eyes
and looked and there the camels were
coming then Rebecca lifted her eyes and
when she saw Isaac she dismounted from
her camel for she had said to the
servant who is this man walking in the
field to meet us
it is my master so she took a veil and
covered herself and the servant told
Isaac all the things that he had done
then Isaac brought her into his mother
Sarah's tent and he took Rebecca and she
became his wife and he loved her so
Isaac was comforted after his mother's
death
[Music]
you